`requestAnimationFrame()` : Warn about long-lived applications and handle 0 (#37856)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/window/requestanimationframe/index.md

### Return value

An `unsigned long` integer value, the request ID, that uniquely identifies the entry
in the callback list. You should not make any assumptions about its value. You can pass this value to
{{domxref("window.cancelAnimationFrame()")}} to cancel the refresh callback request.

> [!WARNING]
> The request ID is typically implemented as a per-window incrementing counter. Therefore, even when it starts counting at 1, it may overflow and end up reaching 0.
> While unlikely to cause issues for short-lived applications, you should avoid `0` as a sentinel value for invalid request identifier IDs and instead prefer unattainable values such as `null`.

> > As of January 2025, browsers such as WebKit and Chrome also don't implement it with an `unsigned long` but with a `signed long`, meaning you can not use negative values either. Firefox will return an error and fail instead of wrapping.
> > This also means that request IDs are not truely unique, and may be reused over time for browsers not implementing the check.

Reviewer: Let's be more handwavy here. The content isn't really for browser-specific behavior; if you want to, you would need to document them as implementation bugs in https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data.

```suggestion
> The spec doesn't specify the overflowing behavior, so browsers have divergent behaviors. When overflowing, the value would either wrap around to 0, to a negative value, or fail with an error.
> Unless overflow throws, request IDs are also not truly unique because there are only finitely many 32-bit integers for possibly infinitely many callbacks.
```

### Return value

> A `long` integer value, the request ID, that uniquely identifies the entry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `unsigned long` integer value, the request ID, that uniquely identifies the entry
```

If we want to talk about the wraparound behavior, it's better to say that it's at least non-negative.

Author: Sadly this is not even the case! A simple signed integer is used. 
See https://github.com/WebKit/WebKit/blob/6355462b3a9548b4d9df5a39afc5b4b923b57c95/Source/WebCore/dom/ScriptedAnimationController.h#L66

It will wrap to negatives on virtually all modern CPU architectures(even through technically undefined behavior) then keep growing back until it hits 0 and starts the cycle again.

Author: Actually, both Chromium and Webkit are wrong, but the spec indeed says `unsigned long`...
This was fixed only 6months ago for Firefox ! (and they mention not being able to make it 64bit due to the spec, probably because numbers in JS engines wouldn't be able to consume the value after a certain point.)
Note that only Firefox detects overflow! https://phabricator.services.mozilla.com/D216159

> in the callback list. You may not make any about its value. You can pass this value to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the callback list. You should not make any assumptions about its value, other than it's a non-negative integer. You can pass this value to
```

{{domxref("window.cancelAnimationFrame()")}} to cancel the refresh callback request.

> [!WARNING]

> > The returned value may seem to always be non-zero, however implementations typically increment an integer that may overflow and end up reaching 0.
> > While unlikely to cause issues for short-lived applications, you may want to use `null` for invalid handles instead of 0.
> > Note that it would take ~500 days to reach for a 60Hz based rendering with 100 calls to `requestAnimationFrame()` per frame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The request ID is typically implemented as a globally shared incrementing counter. Therefore, even when it starts counting at 1, it may overflow and end up reaching 0.
> While unlikely to cause issues for short-lived applications, you should avoid using `0` as a sentinel value for invalid handles, etc., and prefer unattainable values like `-1` or `null`.
> Note that it would take ~500 days to overflow the counter when rendering at 60Hz with 100 calls to `requestAnimationFrame()` per frame.
```

Author: I'll reword a bit, however the counter is not shared but per window, and must be implemented as an incrementing counter.  https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/imagebitmap-and-animations.html#animation-frame-callback-identifier
